Slide 0:
Hello everybody,
My name is Cristóbal Medina. I'm a PhD student in computer science at University of Almeria.
Today, I want to talk about mitigating pollution and free riding attacks using sharmir secret sharing.

Slide 1:
This presentation is available online at slides.p2psp.org.

Slide 2:
First, we are going to talk about P2PSP.
Second, what Pollution attacs are.
After that we'll introduce our trusted peer approach.
Next, our proposal,
and Finally the conlusions.

Slide 3,4:
First, What is the P2PSP protocol?
- It's an application layer protocol for the real-time streaming of multimedia content over the Internet.
- Where every peer is connected each other following a fully connected mesh scheme.
- An open source implementation is available on GitHub at github.com/P2PSP
- The main entities in a P2PSP system are: peers, players, one splitter and one source.
+ How does it work?

slide 5:
The source records the video and sends it in real time to the splitter.

slide 6,7,8,9:
The Splitter divides the stream in several chunks and every chunk is sent to one different peer.
In this case, the splitter sends the chunk number 1 to peer 1, 2 to peer 2, 3 to peer 3, 4 to peer 1, 5 to peer 2 and so on.

slide 10:
Each peer sends its chunks to each others in order to everyone have the whole stream.
Note that only the chunks that each peer receives from the splitter will be retransmitted.

slide 11:
Finally, the peers send the stream to the players.

slide 12,13:
What are pollution attacks?
A pollution attack describes a situation where a peer or a set of peers try to modify the content of a stream. We can find different kind of attacks.

Slide 14:
The most complex attack is a combination of several of them, for example:
- Persistent: when an attacker poisons every chunk received from the splitter.
- Selective: the attacker only attacks some peers and not other.
- Collaborative: attackers can work together in order to cause a big damage.
After an attack the peers involved don't communicate anymore.

slide 15:
We proposed a strategy in order to mitigate the impact of these attacks using Trusted Peers.

slide 16:
The main aim in this strategy is to mitigate attacks and to identify poisoned chunks by using digital signatures.

slide 17:
First, when a peer joins to the team, the splitter sends him his public key.

slide 18:
For each chunk the splitter sends a message including the chunk, the number of chunk, the destination address and a digital signature of the message.

slide 19:
When a peer receives a chunk from other peer, it verifies the destination address and check if the hash value is correct.

slide 20:
The splitter periodically requests the list of removed peers to Trusted peers.

slide 21:
Peers removed by a TP are expelled by the splitter after a ramdom time. The idea is to disasociate the action of the Malicious peer with the Trusted peer.

slide 22:
So, Can trusted peers expel all malicious peers by following these basic rules?

slide 23:
Let's see it with experiments.

slide 24, 25:
These results were obtained by simulation with a simulator available on GitHub. It's free software too.
We can see three situations:
1. When the number of TPs is greater than MPs the attack is completely mitigated.
2. When the number of TPs is equal to MPs the attack is mitigated too.
3. When the number of TPs is less than MPs the attack is not mitigated.

slide 26:
Since we need a high number of TPs to expel malicious, we propose a new approach to improve the previous one.

slide 27:
The idea is very simple: "if you want to remain in the team you must have a good behaviour with at least t peers".
And we can get it using the Shamir secret sharing algorithm.
- For each round, the splitter generates a vector of secret keys (one per chunk) and a matrix of shares (a share per peer and secret key).

slide 28:
- The splitter sends a this message:
  + a chunk cipher with the secret key for that chunk, which shares to get it were sent in the previous round.(explain it)
  + a list of shares needed for the rest of the team to get the secret key (one share per each chunk of that round).
So, the shares to get the secret for a chunk in P2 are sent from P1 and P3.

slide 29:
- The peer reconstructs the secret key using the shares of the previous round, get the signature of the chunks and verifies it.
- If it has not a enougth quantity of shares to decrypt the secret (t), the only option is send a polluted message or not send anything to the whole team.
So it will be detected by a TP.

slide 30:
- Each peer share its chunk with the signature descrypted, and with a share for the chunk of that peer (for the next round).

slide 31:
- The peer verifies the signature of the message and saves the share.

slide 32:
We think...

slide 33:
.. that it will work fine in the most dangerous attack using only one TP.
a. One MP to many peers: if we use a t=6, we expell all peers because they cannot reconstruct the secret and they attack the entire team.
b. One to One: Using a t=6 we don't expel the MPs, but the impact of the attack is very low.
c. If MPs do Many to one attacks, they could expel WIPs, however, it could be easy to detect after MPs repeat a few times the attack.

slide 34, 35:
Conclusions.
- With our proposal the most severe attack is fully mitigated using only one TP and the overhead shown.
- The rest of attacks have a low impact, and they could be improved increasing the number of TPs.
- The optimun value for t is the number of WIPs. So, we could design an adaptative algorithm to estimate it.

slide 34:
Thank you very much!
Any questions?



